Step I : Deploy the sample application on EC2 server and test if it is working fine.

Step II : Containerise the application using Docker container.

Step III: Use Jenkins to automate the process.


Step I :- 1. Create a Ubuntu ec2 instance and connect it,
             make sure the inboud rule for port 8080 is added.
          2. Since app is flask we will check if Python is installed or not.
             Python3 --version
          3. Now check if flask or pip is installed or not
             pip3 --version
             if not installed then update the system first and install it.
             sudo apt-get update
             sudo apt install python3-pip
             sudo pip3 install flask
          4. Now check if git is installed or not follow the same process.
             git --version
             If it is installed then clone the sample code from git using command
             git clone [link of the repo]
          5. Now run the application see if it is running or not.
             python3 app.py[name of the application or file]
             use the public ip of the instance it will show the page is running fine.
             

Step II :- 1. Check if Docker is installed on you ubuntu instance or not if not use command.
              curl -fsSL https://get.docker.com -o get-docker.sh
              sudo sh get-docker.sh
           2. Now cd into git file and cat docker doc since we have already written the docker commands.
           3. Check if any image is there or container is running or not.
              sudo docker image/ps 
           4. Now build a image of that docker file that you have in your current directory(.)
              sudo docker build -t project_1/flaskapp .
           5. to run the image use command 
              sudo docker run -d -p 80:8080 project_1/flaskapp (-d = run in background; -p = mapping port)
              Now if you paste only the public ip in you browser it will respond without mentioning port 8080.



Step III :- 1. Go to pkg.jenkins.io
               select debian-stable/
               follow those commands and install jenkins.
            2. To start the services of jenkins use these commands
               sudo systemctl start jenkins
               sudo systemctl enable jenkins
               sudo systemctl status jenkins
               it will show active and running jenkins.
            3. sudo cat [the path that is showing on jenkins page].
               set-up and finish the plug-in installations.
            4. 









